The goal in the middle part of the
funnel is to get the greatest
return on those visits or that
traffic we have generated or that
investment we have made.
We need to optimize conversions.
We have to make the largest number
of these visits possible to
become new customers or sales
or revenue, in revenue.
What is the first thing we need to do?
Be clear about what these conversions
are, what these ratios are,
what those metrics are we have
to measure, manage, optimize,
etc.
If we do a good job here, if we
have perfectly identified
what those metrics are, it
will be easier for us to
work on them, if we don't
go blind.
We will not know why we are
doing things.
The first thing I want you to know is
that we can classify the funnels basically
into two types.
There is a shorter funnel in which we
go from visit to sale and there is no
lead by middle.
This can be the case, for example,
with e-commerce.
Let's take the recurrent example
of Morrison, which is a shoe
brand that sells online.
We have a longer funnel in which
we have it is visits.
We are going to create or
generate leads.
These leads have to be converted
into sales.
There are two conversion
ratios.
We start with the shortest run.
We are talking about sales.
So here we have a primary
conversion ratio that is that
number of sales or users who
have visited us.
This is what we call macro conversion.
This is your main conversion rate.
But what is happening?
Think of one thing.
We have a conversion
rate of 1.5%.
We know that 1.5 percent of
visits end up becoming a
purchase.
I now ask you the following.
We want to optimize it.
What do we do?
What are the slopes we
should touch?
From this metric, we do not
have much information.
Why is it?
Because we don't know what's
happening and that's why it's
very much recommended to do a deeper
analysis and move from macro
conversion to micro conversions.
That is, identify which are in the
customer's journey all the stages or
the main stages through which the
customer passes and measure one
by one what are the challenges
of the purchase.
Let us think of the case of
Morrison.
We move from the macro conversion
to identifying what are the intermediate steps.
Which are they?
For example, after visiting
the visit, when someone
is browsing the website,
what he does is enter the detail
of some of the shoes and
choose the size and color,
for example.
In some cases, the next step
is what?
Add it to the shopping cart
and what next?
to buy.
Well, if we measure the micro conversions
in each of the stages we
will be able to manage it.
We will be able to identify if
it turns out that in some of the phases
there is a problem, we are losing customers,
etc.
We have the micro conversions
and we have the macro conversions.
This is how we can manage it.
We now go to a longer funnel,
a funnel in which what we do
is first generate traffic,
then the goal is to attract
leads, generate leads and
then turn them into sales.
So what is the first of the
ratios?
This is the percentage of leads
we capture from all the visits
we generate.
This is the first of the macro conversions.
That obsesses us with all companies
that have a funnel of this
type.
We need to optimize everything so that
more and more leads enter the embankment.
Next PostNext What is the Conversion
Ratio?
The percentage of sales generated
on these leads.
From sales or new customers,
that depends on each case.
But really interesting is to adapt
it to your case and define the steps
A consultant who is doing an
inbound marketing strategy generating
a lot of content on the
network and that content
is allowing you to attract
traffic to the website.
And on the website there
is a form and those who are
interested fill out that
form and there is generating a
lead.
A lead is generated.
But really what we want is, the next
step is that those people who have
some interest in those leads
come to visit us and what
we do is call everyone.
A percentage of the people who fill
out the form will come to
see us at the office.
And then, when we meet with them,
we present them with our proposal,
we analyze theirs, etc.
We will sell or capture
a percentage of those customers.
We have microconversions.
It turns out that 1% of people who
visit us fill out the form.
Of those who fill out the form,
which we call all, 50% come
to the office.
Of those, 50% are new
customers.
With this level of detail,
being able to permanently analyze
micro conversions and their
evolution over time, what
we can do is focus on improving
things that are not working.
Improve how we are asking for data
in the form, improve the phone
call, if we send you an email before
calling you after, the
face-to-face meeting, etc.
Now let's go to another case.
Think of a restaurant, for
example.
A restaurant that what it does is
on the website very spectacular
photos, etc.
And the goal is that you book
a table and you can do it by
call or you can do it by means
of the application but they have
to convert the lead, because effectively
at the end the reservation
has to materialize and
this person has to go
to the restaurant.
We have two ratios.
10% of the visitors reserve a table.
Of those who book a table,
70% end up going to the restaurant.
We have two conversion ratios.
If, for example, we would like
to increase the second ratio,
well, because what we could
do would be sending a SMS, for
example, or sending a WhatsApp
or a tracking call or
something like that.
Well, we've already understood
what macro conversions are, what
are the main conversion ratios
and micro conversions,
what you have to do is think
about how your funnel is,
how each of the steps is, identify
those metrics and be measuring
them permanently.
Now let us consider the following.
So far what we have are ratios
that are aggregated of all
the traffic we receive,
but we can't do that.
What we have to do is measure the
ratios for each of the sources
of traffic or the sources
or channels from where they come.
Imagine that you have, you are
investing in Google AdWords, you
are investing in LinkedIn, you
are investing in programming, in
display, various channels.
You have to measure the conversion
rates for each channel.
Why is it?
Because each channel brings you
a different traffic and if you don't do
so it's very possible that you're
deforming the analysis.
Imagine that we have a conversion
ratio in an e-commerce of 1.5 %
on visit and we are investing
and we have made new deals and we
are multiplying the number of visits
because we are expanding the
number of channels and it results
that from 1% we have gone
to 0.3 in a month.
What is what happens?
What is needed to improve
conversions, etc.? to
We do not have to improve anything.
Just what we have to do is select
other traffic sources, but
we don't know that if we don't
have it segmented.
If we don't get it done, we
can draw wrong conclusions.
The recommendation is that you
always have a dashboard where
you measure conversion ratios
segmented by traffic sources
and it would be good to segment
them according to customer
segments.
The segmentation you want or that
you have some sense in your business,
because we can segment you by
purely demographic topics
by ages or we can segment by
geographies or by profiles,
but it is interesting to
do so too.
Why is it?
Because it will allow us to obtain
a lot of information, it will allow
you to identify if, for example,
conversion rates have fallen in
a given customer segment or if there
is a customer segment in which you
lose much more and it is interesting
that you continue to invest
there.
So to finish conclusion
we identify what are the conversion
ratios, the macros and the micro
and what we do is systematically
measure those ratios for each
of the segments either in
terms of where traffic comes
from or what are the customer
segments and we always have
them in a dashboard that
we will measure permanently
to go seeing how each
improvement we do affects
or to identify where we
are failing.